cirq/docs/simulation.md, before:

## Simulation

Cirq comes with a built in Python simulator for testing out
small circuits.  This simulator can shard its simulation 
across different processes and so take advantage of multiple
cores/CPUs.  

Currently the simulator is tailored to the gate set from
Google's Xmon architecture, but the simulator can be used
to run general gate sets, assuming that you provide an
implementation in terms of this basic gate set.

Here is a simple circuit
```python
import cirq
from cirq.circuits import Circuit
from cirq.google import ExpWGate, ExpZGate, Exp11Gate, XmonMeasurementGate, XmonQubit

q0 = XmonQubit(0, 0)
q1 = XmonQubit(1, 0)

def basic_circuit(meas=True):
    sqrt_x = ExpWGate(half_turns=0.5, axis_half_turns=0.0)
    z = ExpZGate()
    cz = Exp11Gate()
    yield [sqrt_x(q0), sqrt_x(q1)]
    yield [cz(q0, q1)]
    yield [sqrt_x(q0), sqrt_x(q1)]
    if meas:
        yield [XmonMeasurementGate(key='q0')(q0), XmonMeasurementGate(key='q1')(q1)]
   
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append(basic_circuit())    
  
print(circuit)
# prints
# (0, 0): ───X^0.5───Z───X^0.5───M───
#                    │
# (1, 0): ───X^0.5───Z───X^0.5───M───
```

We can simulate this by creating an ``xmon_simulator.Simulator`` and 
then simply calling ``run``:
```python
from cirq.google import Simulator
simulator = Simulator()
result = simulator.run(circuit)

print(result)
# prints something like
# q0=1 q1=1
```
Run returns a tuple of a context (see below) and a result, which 
are of type ``TrialContext`` and ``TrialResult``.  As you can see
the result contains the result of any measurements for the simulation
run.

The actual measurement results here depend on the seeding 
``numpy``s random seed generator. (You can set this using 
``numpy.random_seed``) Another run, can result in a different
set of measurement results:
```python
result = simulator.run(circuit)

print(result)
# prints something like
# q0=1 q1=0
```

The Xmon simulator is designed to mimic what running a program
on a quantum computer is actually like. However it does have
a few features which are useful for debugging and running circuits.
In particular the result object includes not just the measurement,
but also the state (wave-function) at the end of the simulation:
```python
import numpy as np
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append(basic_circuit(False))    
result = simulator.run(circuit, qubits=[q0, q1])

print(np.around(result.final_states[0], 3))
# prints
# [-0.5-0.j  -0. +0.5j -0. +0.5j -0.5+0.j ]
```

Note that the xmon simulator uses numpy's ``float32`` precision
(which is ``complex64`` for complex numbers). Also note that
we have supplied a list of ``qubits`` to the ``run`` method.
This is needed in order to define the order of state.  In 
particular if the qubit list is ``[q0, q1, ..., q_{n-1}]``,
and ``x_{n-1}...x_1x_0`` is the binary expansion of the
index ``x``, then ``state[x]`` is the value of the state
corresponding to qubit ``q_i`` being in computational basis
state ``b_i`` (So we say that the ordering is *little-endian*.)

### Stepping through a Circuit

Often when debugging it is useful to not just see the end
result of a circuit, but to inspect, or even modify, the 
state of the system at different steps in the circuit.  To
support this Cirq provides a method to return an iterator
over a ``Moment`` by ``Moment`` simulation.  This is the method
``moment_steps``:
```python
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append(basic_circuit())    
for i, step in enumerate(simulator.moment_steps(circuit, qubits=[q0, q1])):
    print('state at step %d: %s' % (i, np.around(step.state(), 3)))
# prints something like
# state at step 0: [ 0.5+0.j   0.0+0.5j  0.0+0.5j -0.5+0.j ]
# state at step 1: [ 0.5+0.j   0.0+0.5j  0.0+0.5j  0.5+0.j ]
# state at step 2: [-0.5-0.j  -0.0+0.5j -0.0+0.5j -0.5+0.j ]
# state at step 3: [ 0.+0.j  0.+0.j -0.+1.j  0.+0.j]
```

The object returned by the ``moment_steps`` iterator is a 
``StepResult``. This object has the state along with any 
measurements that occurred **during** that step (so does
not include measurement results from previous ``Moments``).
In addition, the``StepResult`` contains ``set_state()`` which 
can be used to set the ``state``. One can pass a valid 
full state to this method by passing a numpy array. Or 
alternatively one can pass an integer and then the state
will be set lie entirely in the computation basis state
for the binary expansion of the passed integer.

### Gate sets

The xmon simulator is designed to work with ``Gates`` that
are either ``XmonGates`` or are ``CompositeGates`` that
decompose (recursively) to ``XmonGates``.  By default the
xmon simulator uses an ``Extension`` defined in 
``xgate_gate_extensions`` to try to resolve gates that 
are not ``XmonGates`` to ``XmonGates``.  

So if you are using a custom gate, there are multiple options
for getting it to work with the simulator:
* Define it directly as an ``XmonGate``.
* Provide a ``CompositeGate`` made up of ``XmonGates``.
* Supply an ``Exentension`` to the simulator which converts
the gate to an ``XmonGate`` (TODO(dabacon): not implemented yet). 

### Parameterized Values and Studies

In addition to circuit gates with fixed values, Cirq also 
supports gates which can have ``Symbol`` value (see
[Gates](gates.md)). These are values that can be resolved
at *run-time*. For simulators these values are resolved by
providing a ``ParamResolver``.  A ``ParamResolver`` provides
a map from the ``Symbol``'s name to its assigned value.

```python
from cirq import Symbol, ParamResolver
val = Symbol('x')
rot_w_gate = ExpWGate(half_turns=val)
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append([rot_w_gate(q0), rot_w_gate(q1)])
for y in range(5):
    resolver = ParamResolver({'x': y / 4.0})
    result = simulator.run(circuit, param_resolver=resolver)
    print(np.around(result.final_states[0], 2))
# prints
# [1.+0.j 0.+0.j 0.+0.j 0.+0.j]
# [ 0.85+0.j    0.  +0.35j  0.  +0.35j -0.15+0.j  ]
# [ 0.5+0.j   0. +0.5j  0. +0.5j -0.5+0.j ]
# [ 0.15+0.j    0.  +0.35j  0.  +0.35j -0.85+0.j  ]
# [ 0.+0.j  0.+0.j  0.+0.j -1.+0.j]
```
Here we see that the ``Symbol`` is used in two gates, and then the resolver
provide this value at run time.
Also note that we now see the use of the ``TrialContext`` returned as the first
tuple from ``run``: it contains the ``param_dict`` describing what values were
actually used in resolving the ``Symbol``s.

Parameterized values are most useful in defining what we call a
``Study``.  A ``Study`` is a collection of trials, where each 
trial is a run with a particular set of configurations and which
may be run repeatedly.  Running a study returns one 
``TrialContext`` and ``TrialResult`` per set of fixed parameter
values and repetitions (which are reported as the ``repetition_id``
in the ``TrialContext`` object).  Example:
```python
from cirq.study import ExecutorStudy
resolvers = [ParamResolver({'x': y / 2.0}) for y in range(3)]
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append([rot_w_gate(q0), rot_w_gate(q1)])
circuit.append([XmonMeasurementGate(key='q0')(q0), XmonMeasurementGate(key='q1')(q1)])
study = ExecutorStudy(executor=simulator,
                      program=circuit,
                      param_resolvers=resolvers,
                      repetitions=2)
for result in study.run_study():
    print(result)
# prints something like
# repetition_id=0 x=0.0 q0=0 q1=0
# repetition_id=1 x=0.0 q0=0 q1=0
# repetition_id=0 x=0.5 q0=0 q1=1
# repetition_id=1 x=0.5 q0=1 q1=1
# repetition_id=0 x=1.0 q0=1 q1=1
# repetition_id=1 x=1.0 q0=1 q1=1
```
where we see that different repetitons for the case that the 
qubit has been rotated into a superposition over computational
basis states yield different measurement results per run.

TODO(dabacon): Describe the iterable of parameterized resolvers
supported by Google's API. 
  
### Simulation Configurations and Options

The xmon simulators also contain some extra configuration
on their ``run`` and ``moment_step`` methods. One of these
as ``initial_state``.  This can be passed the full wave function
as a numpy array, or the initial state as the binary expansion
of a supplied integer (following the order supplied by the qubits
list). 

A simulator (or a ``Study``) can also be passed ``Options``. These
options define some configuration for how the simualator runs.
For the xmon simulator, these include

> **num_shards**: The simulator works by sharding the wave function
over this many shards. If this is not a power of two, the 
smallest power of two less than or equal to this number will
be used. The sharding shards on the first log base
2 of this number qubit's state. When this is not set the 
simulator will use the number of cpus, which tends to max
out the benefit of multi-processing.

> **min_qubits_before_shard**: Sharding and multiprocessing does
not really help for very few number of qubits, and in fact can
hurt because processes have a fixed (large) cost in Python.
This is the minimum number of qubits that are needed before the
simulator starts to do sharding. By default this is 10.

Commit message:

Re-create Study as a data object. Delete Executor. Add parameters and repetition support to engine.

cirq/docs/simulation.md, after:

## Simulation

Cirq comes with a built in Python simulator for testing out
small circuits.  This simulator can shard its simulation 
across different processes and so take advantage of multiple
cores/CPUs.  

Currently the simulator is tailored to the gate set from
Google's Xmon architecture, but the simulator can be used
to run general gate sets, assuming that you provide an
implementation in terms of this basic gate set.

Here is a simple circuit
```python
import cirq
from cirq.circuits import Circuit
from cirq.google import ExpWGate, ExpZGate, Exp11Gate, XmonMeasurementGate, XmonQubit

q0 = XmonQubit(0, 0)
q1 = XmonQubit(1, 0)

def basic_circuit(meas=True):
    sqrt_x = ExpWGate(half_turns=0.5, axis_half_turns=0.0)
    z = ExpZGate()
    cz = Exp11Gate()
    yield [sqrt_x(q0), sqrt_x(q1)]
    yield [cz(q0, q1)]
    yield [sqrt_x(q0), sqrt_x(q1)]
    if meas:
        yield [XmonMeasurementGate(key='q0')(q0), XmonMeasurementGate(key='q1')(q1)]
   
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append(basic_circuit())    
  
print(circuit)
# prints
# (0, 0): ───X^0.5───Z───X^0.5───M───
#                    │
# (1, 0): ───X^0.5───Z───X^0.5───M───
```

We can simulate this by creating an ``xmon_simulator.Simulator`` and 
then simply calling ``run``:
```python
from cirq.google import Simulator
simulator = Simulator()
result = simulator.run(circuit)[0]

print(result)
# prints something like
# q0=1 q1=1
```
Run returns a tuple of a context (see below) and a result, which 
are of type ``TrialContext`` and ``TrialResult``.  As you can see
the result contains the result of any measurements for the simulation
run.

The actual measurement results here depend on the seeding 
``numpy``s random seed generator. (You can set this using 
``numpy.random_seed``) Another run, can result in a different
set of measurement results:
```python
result = simulator.run(circuit)[0]

print(result)
# prints something like
# q0=1 q1=0
```

The Xmon simulator is designed to mimic what running a program
on a quantum computer is actually like. However it does have
a few features which are useful for debugging and running circuits.
In particular the result object includes not just the measurement,
but also the state (wave-function) at the end of the simulation:
```python
import numpy as np
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append(basic_circuit(False))    
result = simulator.run(circuit, qubits=[q0, q1])[0]

print(np.around(result.final_states[0], 3))
# prints
# [-0.5-0.j  -0. +0.5j -0. +0.5j -0.5+0.j ]
```

Note that the xmon simulator uses numpy's ``float32`` precision
(which is ``complex64`` for complex numbers). Also note that
we have supplied a list of ``qubits`` to the ``run`` method.
This is needed in order to define the order of state.  In 
particular if the qubit list is ``[q0, q1, ..., q_{n-1}]``,
and ``x_{n-1}...x_1x_0`` is the binary expansion of the
index ``x``, then ``state[x]`` is the value of the state
corresponding to qubit ``q_i`` being in computational basis
state ``b_i`` (So we say that the ordering is *little-endian*.)

### Stepping through a Circuit

Often when debugging it is useful to not just see the end
result of a circuit, but to inspect, or even modify, the 
state of the system at different steps in the circuit.  To
support this Cirq provides a method to return an iterator
over a ``Moment`` by ``Moment`` simulation.  This is the method
``moment_steps``:
```python
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append(basic_circuit())    
for i, step in enumerate(simulator.moment_steps(circuit, qubits=[q0, q1])):
    print('state at step %d: %s' % (i, np.around(step.state(), 3)))
# prints something like
# state at step 0: [ 0.5+0.j   0.0+0.5j  0.0+0.5j -0.5+0.j ]
# state at step 1: [ 0.5+0.j   0.0+0.5j  0.0+0.5j  0.5+0.j ]
# state at step 2: [-0.5-0.j  -0.0+0.5j -0.0+0.5j -0.5+0.j ]
# state at step 3: [ 0.+0.j  0.+0.j -0.+1.j  0.+0.j]
```

The object returned by the ``moment_steps`` iterator is a 
``StepResult``. This object has the state along with any 
measurements that occurred **during** that step (so does
not include measurement results from previous ``Moments``).
In addition, the``StepResult`` contains ``set_state()`` which 
can be used to set the ``state``. One can pass a valid 
full state to this method by passing a numpy array. Or 
alternatively one can pass an integer and then the state
will be set lie entirely in the computation basis state
for the binary expansion of the passed integer.

### Gate sets

The xmon simulator is designed to work with ``Gates`` that
are either ``XmonGates`` or are ``CompositeGates`` that
decompose (recursively) to ``XmonGates``.  By default the
xmon simulator uses an ``Extension`` defined in 
``xgate_gate_extensions`` to try to resolve gates that 
are not ``XmonGates`` to ``XmonGates``.  

So if you are using a custom gate, there are multiple options
for getting it to work with the simulator:
* Define it directly as an ``XmonGate``.
* Provide a ``CompositeGate`` made up of ``XmonGates``.
* Supply an ``Exentension`` to the simulator which converts
the gate to an ``XmonGate`` (TODO(dabacon): not implemented yet). 

### Parameterized Values and Studies

In addition to circuit gates with fixed values, Cirq also 
supports gates which can have ``Symbol`` value (see
[Gates](gates.md)). These are values that can be resolved
at *run-time*. For simulators these values are resolved by
providing a ``ParamResolver``.  A ``ParamResolver`` provides
a map from the ``Symbol``'s name to its assigned value.

```python
from cirq import Symbol, ParamResolver
val = Symbol('x')
rot_w_gate = ExpWGate(half_turns=val)
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append([rot_w_gate(q0), rot_w_gate(q1)])
for y in range(5):
    resolver = ParamResolver({'x': y / 4.0})
    result = simulator.run(circuit, params=resolver)[0]
    print(np.around(result.final_states[0], 2))
# prints
# [1.+0.j 0.+0.j 0.+0.j 0.+0.j]
# [ 0.85+0.j    0.  +0.35j  0.  +0.35j -0.15+0.j  ]
# [ 0.5+0.j   0. +0.5j  0. +0.5j -0.5+0.j ]
# [ 0.15+0.j    0.  +0.35j  0.  +0.35j -0.85+0.j  ]
# [ 0.+0.j  0.+0.j  0.+0.j -1.+0.j]
```
Here we see that the ``Symbol`` is used in two gates, and then the resolver
provide this value at run time.
Also note that we now see the use of the ``TrialContext`` returned as the first
tuple from ``run``: it contains the ``param_dict`` describing what values were
actually used in resolving the ``Symbol``s.

Parameterized values are most useful in defining what we call a
``Study``.  A ``Study`` is a collection of trials, where each 
trial is a run with a particular set of configurations and which
may be run repeatedly.  Running a study returns one 
``TrialContext`` and ``TrialResult`` per set of fixed parameter
values and repetitions (which are reported as the ``repetition_id``
in the ``TrialContext`` object).  Example:
```python
resolvers = [ParamResolver({'x': y / 2.0}) for y in range(3)]
circuit = Circuit()
circuit.append([rot_w_gate(q0), rot_w_gate(q1)])
circuit.append([XmonMeasurementGate(key='q0')(q0), XmonMeasurementGate(key='q1')(q1)])
results = simulator.run(program=circuit,
                      params=resolvers,
                      repetitions=2)
for result in results:
    print(result)
# prints something like
# repetition_id=0 x=0.0 q0=0 q1=0
# repetition_id=1 x=0.0 q0=0 q1=0
# repetition_id=0 x=0.5 q0=0 q1=1
# repetition_id=1 x=0.5 q0=1 q1=1
# repetition_id=0 x=1.0 q0=1 q1=1
# repetition_id=1 x=1.0 q0=1 q1=1
```
where we see that different repetitions for the case that the
qubit has been rotated into a superposition over computational
basis states yield different measurement results per run.

TODO(dabacon): Describe the iterable of parameterized resolvers
supported by Google's API. 
  
### Simulation Configurations and Options

The xmon simulators also contain some extra configuration
on their ``run`` and ``moment_step`` methods. One of these
as ``initial_state``.  This can be passed the full wave function
as a numpy array, or the initial state as the binary expansion
of a supplied integer (following the order supplied by the qubits
list). 

A simulator (or a ``Study``) can also be passed ``Options``. These
options define some configuration for how the simualator runs.
For the xmon simulator, these include

> **num_shards**: The simulator works by sharding the wave function
over this many shards. If this is not a power of two, the 
smallest power of two less than or equal to this number will
be used. The sharding shards on the first log base
2 of this number qubit's state. When this is not set the 
simulator will use the number of cpus, which tends to max
out the benefit of multi-processing.

> **min_qubits_before_shard**: Sharding and multiprocessing does
not really help for very few number of qubits, and in fact can
hurt because processes have a fixed (large) cost in Python.
This is the minimum number of qubits that are needed before the
simulator starts to do sharding. By default this is 10.
