docs/development.md, before:

## Development

This document is a summary of how to do various tasks one runs into as a
developer of cirq.
Note that all commands assume a Debian environment, and all commands (except
the initial repository cloning command) assume you are at the cirq repo root.


### Cloning the repository

You can create a local version of this repository by running:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:quantumlib/Cirq.git
cd Cirq
```

This will allow you to use the Cirq library and build your own applications
using this framework.

If instead, you wish to do development on Cirq itself and contribute back to
the community, follow the directions below.

### Forking the repository

If do not plan to contribute back to the Cirq project and only wish to use
the Cirq framework to build your own quantum programs and circuits, you can
skip this section.

1. Fork the Cirq repo (Fork button in upper right corner of
[repo page](https://github.com/quantumlib/Cirq)).
Forking creates a new github repo at the location
```https://github.com/USERNAME/cirq``` where ```USERNAME``` is
your github id.
1. Clone the fork you created to your local machine at the directory
where you would like to store your local copy of the code and change directory
to cirq.
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:USERNAME/cirq.git
    cd cirq
    ```
    (Alternatively, you can clone the repository using the URL provided
    on your repo page under the green "Clone or Download" button)
1. Add a remote called ```upstream``` to git.  This remote will represent
the main git repo for cirq (as opposed to the clone, which you just
created, which will be the ```origin``` remote).  This remote can be used
to sync your local git repos with the main git repo for cirq.
    ```shell
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/quantumlib/cirq.git
    ```
    To verify the remote run ```git remote -v``` and you should see both
    the ```origin``` and ```upstream``` remotes.
1. Sync up your local git with the ```upstream``` remote:
    ```shell
    git fetch upstream
    ```
    You can check the branches that are on the ```upstream``` remote by
    running ```git remote -va``` or ```git branch -r```.
Most importantly you should see ```upstream/master``` listed.
1. Merge the upstream master into your local master so that
it is up to date
    ```shell
    git checkout master
    git merge upstream/master
    ```
    At this point your local git master should be synced with the master
    from the main cirq repo.


### Setting up an environment.

0. First clone the repository, if you have not already done so.
See the previous section for instructions.


1. Install system dependencies.

    Make sure you have python 3.5 or greater.
    You can install most other dependencies via `apt-get`:

    ```bash
    cat apt-system-requirements.txt dev_tools/conf/apt-list-dev-tools.txt | xargs sudo apt-get install --yes
    ```

    If you change protocol buffers you will need to regenerate the proto files, so you should
    install the protocol buffer compiler.  Instructions for this can be found
    [here](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/blob/master/src/README.md).

2. Prepare a virtual environment including the dev tools (such as mypy).

    One of the system dependencies we installed was `virtualenvwrapper`, which makes it easy to create virtual environments.
    If you did not have `virtualenvwrapper` previously, you may need to re-open your terminal or run `source ~/.bashrc` before these commands will work:

    ```bash
    mkvirtualenv cirq-py3 --python=/usr/bin/python3
    pip install --upgrade pip
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    pip install -r dev_tools/conf/pip-list-dev-tools.txt
    ```

    (When you later open another terminal, you can activate the virtualenv with `workon cirq-py3`.)

3. Check that the tests pass.

    ```bash
    pytest .
    ```

4. (**OPTIONAL**) include your development copy of cirq in your python path.

    ```bash
    PYTHONPATH="$(pwd)":"${PYTHONPATH}"
    ```


### Running continuous integration checks locally

There are a few options for running continuous integration checks, varying from easy and fast to slow and reliable.

The simplest way to run checks is to invoke `pytest`, `pylint`, or `mypy` for yourself as follows:

```bash
pytest
pylint --rcfile=dev_tools/conf/.pylintrc cirq
mypy --config-file=dev_tools/conf/mypy.ini .
```

This can be a bit tedious, because you have to specify the configuration files each time.
A more convenient way to run checks is to via the scripts in the [check/](/check) directory, which specify configuration arguments for you and cover more use cases:

```bash
# Run all tests in the repository.
./check/pytest

# Check all relevant files in the repository for lint.
./check/pylint

# Typecheck all python files in the repository.
./check/mypy

# Transpile to python 2 and run tests.
./check/pytest2  # Note: must be in a python 2 virtual env to run this.

# Compute incremental coverage vs master (or a custom revision of your choice).
./check/pytest-and-incremental-coverage [BASE_REVISION]

# Only run tests associated with files that have changed when diffed vs master (or a custom revision of your choice).
./check/pytest-changed-files [BASE_REVISION]
```

The above scripts are convenient and reasonably fast, but they often don't match the results computed by the continuous integration builds run on travis.
For example, you may be running an older version of `pylint` or `numpy`.
In order to run a check that is significantly more likely to agree with the travis builds, you can use the [continuous-integration/check.sh](/continuous-integration/check.sh) script:

```bash
./continuous-integration/check.sh
```

This script will create (temporary) virtual environments, do a fresh install of all relevant dependencies, transpile the python 2 code, and run all relevant checks within those clean environments.
Note that creating the virtual environments takes time, and prevents some caching mechanisms from working, so `continuous-integration/check.sh` is significantly slower than the simpler check scripts.
When using this script, you can run a subset of the checks using the ```--only``` flag.
This flag value can be `pylint`, `typecheck`, `pytest`, `pytest2`, or `incremental-coverage`.


### Producing the Python 2.7 code

Run [dev_tools/python2.7-generate.sh](/dev_tools/python2.7-generate.sh) to transpile cirq's python 3 code into python 2.7 code:

```bash
bash dev_tools/python2.7-generate.sh [output_dir] [input_dir] [virtual_env_with_3to2]
```

If you don't specify any arguments then the input directory will be the current
working directory, the output directory will be `python2.7-output` within the
current directory, and `3to2` will be invoked in the current environment.

The script fails with no effects if the output directory already exists.


### Producing a pypi package

1. Set the version number in [cirq/_version.py](/cirq/_version.py).

    Development versions end with `.dev` or `.dev#`.
    For example, `0.0.4.dev500` is a development version of the release version `0.0.4`.
    For a release, create a pull request turning `#.#.#.dev*` into `#.#.#` and a follow up pull request turning `#.#.#` into `(#+1).#.#.dev`.

2. Do a dry run with test pypi.

    If you're making a release, you should have access to a test pypi account
    capable of uploading packages. Put its credentials into the environment
    variables `TEST_TWINE_USERNAME` and `TEST_TWINE_PASSWORD` then run

    ```bash
    dev_tools/publish-to-test-pypi.sh
    ```

    to create packages for the current version and upload them to test pypi. You
    should then create fresh python 3 and python 2 virtual environments and try
    to

    ```bash
    pip install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ cirq==VERSION_YOU_UPLOADED
    python -c "import cirq; print(cirq.google.Foxtail)"
    python -c "import cirq; print(cirq.__version__)"
    ```

    Note: you will likely need to first install cirq's requirements from non-test pypi (because they may not exist in test pypi).

    Check that the printed version is correct!

3. Run [dev_tools/packaging/prepare-package.sh](/dev_tools/packaging/produce-package.sh) to produce pypi artifacts.

    ```bash
    dev_tools/packaging/produce-package.sh dist
    ```

    The output files will be placed in `dist/`.

4. Create a github release.

    Describe major changes (especially breaking changes) in the summary.
    Make sure you point the tag being created at the one and only revision with the non-dev version number.
    Attach the package files you produced to the release.

5. Upload to pypi.

    You can use a tool such as `twine` for this.
    For example:

    ```bash
    twine upload -u "${PYPI_USERNAME}" -p "${PYPI_PASSWORD}" dist/*
    ```

    You should then create fresh python 2 and python 3 virtual environments and
    check that this works:

    ```bash
    pip install cirq
    python -c "import cirq; print(cirq.google.Foxtail)"
    python -c "import cirq; print(cirq.__version__)"
    ```

Commit message:

Add "add2virtualenv" to dev setup instructions

docs/development.md, after:

## Development

This document is a summary of how to do various tasks one runs into as a
developer of cirq.
Note that all commands assume a Debian environment, and all commands (except
the initial repository cloning command) assume you are at the cirq repo root.


### Cloning the repository

You can create a local version of this repository by running:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:quantumlib/Cirq.git
cd Cirq
```

This will allow you to use the Cirq library and build your own applications
using this framework.

If instead, you wish to do development on Cirq itself and contribute back to
the community, follow the directions below.

### Forking the repository

If do not plan to contribute back to the Cirq project and only wish to use
the Cirq framework to build your own quantum programs and circuits, you can
skip this section.

1. Fork the Cirq repo (Fork button in upper right corner of
[repo page](https://github.com/quantumlib/Cirq)).
Forking creates a new github repo at the location
```https://github.com/USERNAME/cirq``` where ```USERNAME``` is
your github id.
1. Clone the fork you created to your local machine at the directory
where you would like to store your local copy of the code and change directory
to cirq.
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:USERNAME/cirq.git
    cd cirq
    ```
    (Alternatively, you can clone the repository using the URL provided
    on your repo page under the green "Clone or Download" button)
1. Add a remote called ```upstream``` to git.  This remote will represent
the main git repo for cirq (as opposed to the clone, which you just
created, which will be the ```origin``` remote).  This remote can be used
to sync your local git repos with the main git repo for cirq.
    ```shell
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/quantumlib/cirq.git
    ```
    To verify the remote run ```git remote -v``` and you should see both
    the ```origin``` and ```upstream``` remotes.
1. Sync up your local git with the ```upstream``` remote:
    ```shell
    git fetch upstream
    ```
    You can check the branches that are on the ```upstream``` remote by
    running ```git remote -va``` or ```git branch -r```.
Most importantly you should see ```upstream/master``` listed.
1. Merge the upstream master into your local master so that
it is up to date
    ```shell
    git checkout master
    git merge upstream/master
    ```
    At this point your local git master should be synced with the master
    from the main cirq repo.


### Setting up an environment.

0. First clone the repository, if you have not already done so.
See the previous section for instructions.


1. Install system dependencies.

    Make sure you have python 3.5 or greater.
    You can install most other dependencies via `apt-get`:

    ```bash
    cat apt-system-requirements.txt dev_tools/conf/apt-list-dev-tools.txt | xargs sudo apt-get install --yes
    ```

    If you change protocol buffers you will need to regenerate the proto files, so you should
    install the protocol buffer compiler.  Instructions for this can be found
    [here](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/blob/master/src/README.md).

2. Prepare a virtual environment including the dev tools (such as mypy).

    One of the system dependencies we installed was `virtualenvwrapper`, which makes it easy to create virtual environments.
    If you did not have `virtualenvwrapper` previously, you may need to re-open your terminal or run `source ~/.bashrc` before these commands will work:

    ```bash
    mkvirtualenv cirq-py3 --python=/usr/bin/python3
    pip install --upgrade pip
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    pip install -r dev_tools/conf/pip-list-dev-tools.txt
    ```

    (When you later open another terminal, you can activate the virtualenv with `workon cirq-py3`.)

3. Check that the tests pass.

    ```bash
    pytest .
    ```

4. (**OPTIONAL**) include your development copy of cirq in your python path.

    ```bash
    PYTHONPATH="$(pwd)":"${PYTHONPATH}"
    ```
    
    or add it to the python path, but only in the virtualenv.
    
    ```bash
    add2virtualenv ./
    ```


### Running continuous integration checks locally

There are a few options for running continuous integration checks, varying from easy and fast to slow and reliable.

The simplest way to run checks is to invoke `pytest`, `pylint`, or `mypy` for yourself as follows:

```bash
pytest
pylint --rcfile=dev_tools/conf/.pylintrc cirq
mypy --config-file=dev_tools/conf/mypy.ini .
```

This can be a bit tedious, because you have to specify the configuration files each time.
A more convenient way to run checks is to via the scripts in the [check/](/check) directory, which specify configuration arguments for you and cover more use cases:

```bash
# Run all tests in the repository.
./check/pytest

# Check all relevant files in the repository for lint.
./check/pylint

# Typecheck all python files in the repository.
./check/mypy

# Transpile to python 2 and run tests.
./check/pytest2  # Note: must be in a python 2 virtual env to run this.

# Compute incremental coverage vs master (or a custom revision of your choice).
./check/pytest-and-incremental-coverage [BASE_REVISION]

# Only run tests associated with files that have changed when diffed vs master (or a custom revision of your choice).
./check/pytest-changed-files [BASE_REVISION]
```

The above scripts are convenient and reasonably fast, but they often don't match the results computed by the continuous integration builds run on travis.
For example, you may be running an older version of `pylint` or `numpy`.
In order to run a check that is significantly more likely to agree with the travis builds, you can use the [continuous-integration/check.sh](/continuous-integration/check.sh) script:

```bash
./continuous-integration/check.sh
```

This script will create (temporary) virtual environments, do a fresh install of all relevant dependencies, transpile the python 2 code, and run all relevant checks within those clean environments.
Note that creating the virtual environments takes time, and prevents some caching mechanisms from working, so `continuous-integration/check.sh` is significantly slower than the simpler check scripts.
When using this script, you can run a subset of the checks using the ```--only``` flag.
This flag value can be `pylint`, `typecheck`, `pytest`, `pytest2`, or `incremental-coverage`.


### Producing the Python 2.7 code

Run [dev_tools/python2.7-generate.sh](/dev_tools/python2.7-generate.sh) to transpile cirq's python 3 code into python 2.7 code:

```bash
bash dev_tools/python2.7-generate.sh [output_dir] [input_dir] [virtual_env_with_3to2]
```

If you don't specify any arguments then the input directory will be the current
working directory, the output directory will be `python2.7-output` within the
current directory, and `3to2` will be invoked in the current environment.

The script fails with no effects if the output directory already exists.


### Producing a pypi package

1. Set the version number in [cirq/_version.py](/cirq/_version.py).

    Development versions end with `.dev` or `.dev#`.
    For example, `0.0.4.dev500` is a development version of the release version `0.0.4`.
    For a release, create a pull request turning `#.#.#.dev*` into `#.#.#` and a follow up pull request turning `#.#.#` into `(#+1).#.#.dev`.

2. Do a dry run with test pypi.

    If you're making a release, you should have access to a test pypi account
    capable of uploading packages. Put its credentials into the environment
    variables `TEST_TWINE_USERNAME` and `TEST_TWINE_PASSWORD` then run

    ```bash
    dev_tools/publish-to-test-pypi.sh
    ```

    to create packages for the current version and upload them to test pypi. You
    should then create fresh python 3 and python 2 virtual environments and try
    to

    ```bash
    pip install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ cirq==VERSION_YOU_UPLOADED
    python -c "import cirq; print(cirq.google.Foxtail)"
    python -c "import cirq; print(cirq.__version__)"
    ```

    Note: you will likely need to first install cirq's requirements from non-test pypi (because they may not exist in test pypi).

    Check that the printed version is correct!

3. Run [dev_tools/packaging/prepare-package.sh](/dev_tools/packaging/produce-package.sh) to produce pypi artifacts.

    ```bash
    dev_tools/packaging/produce-package.sh dist
    ```

    The output files will be placed in `dist/`.

4. Create a github release.

    Describe major changes (especially breaking changes) in the summary.
    Make sure you point the tag being created at the one and only revision with the non-dev version number.
    Attach the package files you produced to the release.

5. Upload to pypi.

    You can use a tool such as `twine` for this.
    For example:

    ```bash
    twine upload -u "${PYPI_USERNAME}" -p "${PYPI_PASSWORD}" dist/*
    ```

    You should then create fresh python 2 and python 3 virtual environments and
    check that this works:

    ```bash
    pip install cirq
    python -c "import cirq; print(cirq.google.Foxtail)"
    python -c "import cirq; print(cirq.__version__)"
    ```
